In the previous video, we already learn about
the function of telnet or ssh.
So the point is, we can use telnet or ssh
to remote the cisco devices over a computer network.
Now, the question is, what is the differences
between telnet and ssh?
The differences is in the security level,
ssh is more secure than telnet.
Because in telnet there is no encryption.
This is means, if we remote the cisco devices
using telnet, everything that we type in the
keyboard can easily seen by other people using
packet analyser like wireshark.
But ssh is secure, everything that we type
in the keyboard will be encrypted by ssh.
In this video, we are going to learn how to
configure telnet first.
We will learn how to configure ssh in the
next video.
Okay let’s just start.
We are going to configure telnet on the router.
To configure telnet in the router, first we
need to go to virtual terminal, line vty 0
and then question mark.
Here we can use until 15.
Let’s say I use 2.
Here 0 until 2 is 3, this is means at the
same time there will be 3 people who can login
using telnet.
Next we need to configure password for telnet,
so here password and then the password,
let’s say telnet123.
Next we can use command login.
This command means that if we want to login
to the cisco devices using telnet,
we will need a password, in this case the password
is telnet123.
Last, we need to type command transport input
telnet.
Beside telnet, we can also use transport input
all, if we use all like this, so we can remote
the router using telnet or ssh.
So there is 3 choices, first we can use all,
and remember if we use all so we can remote
the cisco devices using telnet or ssh.
We also can use transport input telnet, this
is means that we only can remote the cisco
devices using telnet.
Last, we also can use transport input ssh.
This is means that we only can remote the
cisco devices using ssh.
In this case I will use telnet first.
Okay now we have done configuring telnet in
the cisco router.
Next let’s try to telnet to the router,
but here let’s remove the console cable first.
Here let’s say we want to telnet to the
router from pc in the vlan 10.
To remote the router using telnet, we can
use telnet or ssh client.
Here we can choose telnet and type the ip
address of the router.
You are free to use which ip address of the
router, remember that the router now have
multiple ip address, which is for vlan 10,
vlan 20, and vlan 30.
And here, we are free to use which ip of the
router, as long as the ip address is accessible
from the pc.
Now let’s try to ping first, close this,
and open command prompt.
Let’s ping to the vlan 10 first, 192.168.10.1,
okay here we can see that the result is success,
so we can telnet the router using this ip.
Let’s also try ping to vlan 20.
192.168.20.1, okay
this is also success, so we also can remote
the router using this ip.
Let’s also try to ping to vlan 30, ping
192.168.30.1, okay this is also success.
So we also can remote the router using this
ip.
Okay let’s back to telnet/ssh client.
Here choose telnet, and put the ip address
of the router, in this case,
let’s say I want to use ip address of the router vlan
20.
Then click connect.
Okay here we need to input the telnet password,
which is telnet123.
Okay here we can see that now we have successfully
login to the router using telnet.
Let’s enable.
Okay here we got an error no password set.
This is because we don’t configure enable
secret yet in the cisco router.
Let’s go to the router, and configure the
enable secret, so enable secret and then the
password, let’s say the password is cisco.
Now let’s back to the pc, enable, the password
is cisco, and okay here we are success to
enter privilege mode.
Okay I think enough for this video, so now
you are able to configure telnet on the cisco router.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.